Careful!
It's canvas! This ship is made of canvas!
Don't damage it.
Don't just stand there! It's crowded here.
Hurry up... this way!
I hate slackers!
You... this way.
He's fine. Come on!
You aren't here to play!
What an amazing engine.
Where'd he go? Uncle! Uncle!
Uncle... here's the assistant you wanted.
NOT SO LOUD!! I ain't deaf.
He's worse than Mama. Be careful.
It's so cramped, my hand won't go in.
It's this packing, isn't it.
What's your name?
The Levistone pointed due east, did it?
From the tower, I could see the sun rise.
Now is the mowing season.
So the sunrise is a little
south of true east.
The sun rose left of the hills.
The Levistone light
crossed the left tip of the sun's edge.
Good answer. How are things up there?
I'm getting nothing.
So, they're jamming the radio to hide
their whereabouts, are they?!
Mama, the Goliath's moving pretty fast!
What'll we do?
We'll be on their windward side.
If we use the trade winds...
20, 000 feet and ride the jet stream...
With wind speed 10...
We'll do it somehow.
Everybody, listen up!
We are setting course for Laputa.
Our ship will now commence top-speed pursuit!
Using the wind, we should be able
to make contact tomorrow!
And I'll give 10 gold
pieces to the first to spot her!
10 gold pieces!
Laputa is some sort of flying island.
There's probably enough
treasure for everybody.
So! Everybody... GET TO WORK!
Now!
Course 98. Velocity 40!
There's nothing your size.
Put this on.
Here's your post.
Five meals a day. Conserve water.
You morons! Get back to work!
Sorry, dinner isn't ready yet.
It's my first airship kitchen.
Did you want something?
I have some spare time,
so I thought I'd be of some help.
Well, thank you. Would you do that washing?
No problem.
Hey, you said your back hurt.
I had some spare time and thought I'd help.
Men Out of the way.
Men Don't push.
Hey, can I be of some help?
So, you were scared too?
And they have the Goliath to help them...
Sounds hopeless.
It's the island of Laputa, so it's no wonder.
They're certainly good kids, those two.
What do you want me to say, you stupid old man?
Nothing. But you should show me more respect.
What?!
That's checkmate, isn't it?
Umm... if anyone wants seconds...
Seconds!
Hey! Get up.
It's your watch. Take this, it's cold out.
The lookout?
Yeah.
It's cold! You're up top.
I'm second shift.
Thanks.
That was scary!
It's beautiful.
Get in.
Can't sleep?
It's warm.
Sheeta, you look behind.
I'm scared beyond words.
The truth is,
I don't want to go to Laputa at all.
I hope we don't find the Goliath.
There are just too many
strange and powerful... well...
You mean like what happened with the robot?
That was sad, wasn't it.
And it happened because of a spell
taught to me by my grandmother.
I learned many other spells, too.
To find things, and to cure
illness and words I must
absolutely never use...
Words you must never use?
Spells of destruction,
good spells to bestow power...
She said I must also
know the bad words but never use them.
After I learned them,
I was too afraid to sleep.
And it all had to do with the stone.
It was always hidden in the fireplace,
and except at weddings, never used...
Mother, and Grandmother,
and Grandmother's Grandmother...
everybody feared it!
I wish it had never existed!
You're wrong. I met you, thanks to that stone.
And thanks to that stone, Laputa won't be lost.
All our progress with flying machines,
and no one's seen it but my father.
And what if Laputa is really
an island of terror?
It mustn't fall into the hands
of Muska and the others.
Besides... if we run away now,
we'll be chased forever.
But I don't want to make you
a pirate for my sake.
I won't become a pirate.
Even Dora understands.
I think she's really a good person.
When this is all over,
I'm sure she'll take you back to Gondoa.
I want to see it. The old house
where you were born, and the yaks.
What's that?!
Underneath the ship... there!
It's the Goliath. It's right below us!
Hard to starboard!
Muska, why aren't we chasing them?
They'll get away!
It's no use, in the clouds.
Anyway, they can't run far!
We're on course and everything's
going smoothly.
The course was more north.
Pazu, there's no time. Listen up!
If we don't shake off the Goliath,
we're finished!
You have good eyes.
I want you to stay in the lookout.
If we leave the clouds, they'll pursue.
What should I do?
That lookout post will turn into a kite.
There should be a handle inside.
Found it!
If you turn it clockwise, the hook will catch.
If you turn the upper handle,
the wings will open!
When it's open, don't stretch the wire.
Remember to steer with your body!
Is Sheeta up there?
You better come back down!
Why?
WHY? Because you're a little girl!
Auntie, you're a girl, too! Besides,
I'm mountain-bred. I have good eyes, too.
Please...
Pazu agrees with me!
If you go up, don't use the voice tube.
There's an internal telephone.
Is this the phone you were talking about,
Auntie?
Wow.
Yes... we'll try. Let us up!
Go!
I can't see it.
They've dived into the clouds.
Be careful. They may not be in front of us.
Okay!
Hang on tight!
What's wrong?!
Turbulence... we're okay!
Just a little stirred up!
Yes! I'll continue the watch.
Scared?
I've gotten the hang of it now.
It's a little stormy.
Sheeta, get the rope out of my bag.
Tie us together with it.
Okay.
The barometer is falling fast, Mama.
A storm. What rotten luck.
How long until sunrise?
One hour!
It's dawn!
Pazu, that's strange.
The sun is rising on that side.
I see! We must be going north,
not east! Bridge!
We're going north, you say?!
The compass is pointing east!
The wind's changed. We're off course!
Look... there!
What's the matter... the Goliath?
The clouds. They're huge.
The clouds?
They're coming this way!
It's a sky castle...
THAT'S a low pressure center! The ship
won't stand the wind. Full power! Due north!
It's coming closer!
All right! We're trying!
The rudder won't move!
Always the damn power! What's wrong?
Dora! The engine'll burn up!
I don't want any complaints! Just do it!
Get out of the clouds!
Sheeta, it's the ocean!
The Dragon's Nest!
This... is the Dragon's Nest?!
The wind is blowing in the wrong direction,
just like father said.
It's a wall of wind!
Mama, we can't get out!
We're being sucked in.
The wind just won't quit!
Bridge! Laputa is in there!
What?
Father saw Laputa in the Dragon's Nest!
You're crazy! If we go in, we'll be torn apart!
Over there!
Now, of all times...!
Let's go, Auntie! It's the way Father took,
and he came back!
ALL RIGHT! Let's go... into the Dragon's Nest!
Yeah! We did it!
Our ship is in danger, too. We must retreat.
No! Carry on.
The light always indicates the center
of the whirling clouds.
Laputa is inside the storm. Steady as she goes.
There must be an entrance.
Hang on, Sheeta!
Sheeta!
Are you okay?
Look...
Laputa...
Sorry!
Wait; it's still pretty tightly knotted.
My hands are shaking.
There are birds here.
What do you suppose happened to everyone?
It's coming to meet you, Sheeta.
But I don't have the Levistone.
A knife will free us.
What are you doing!?
Wait!
Please, don't break that.
We can't go back without it.
It's a Hitaki nest!
It came because of this?
Oh, good... the eggs aren't broken.
Not afraid, are they?
Let's follow it.
Do you know the words?
Don't worry about that!
It's a city!
We must be inside the buildings.
Sheeta, the sky...
It looked like stone walls from the outside.
But, if their science was so advanced, why...?
It's a tomb, isn't it?
Forgotten writing...
Did you do this?
It's not the same robot as before!
It must be a gardening robot.
There weren't any people...
Who knows how long it's been
standing guard here.
You offered flowers before the tomb?
Thank you.
You're all alone?
Aren't there any other robots here?
Doesn't look lonely at all, does it...
It has friends. Cares for the Hitaki nests,
too. It won't die.
This way!
The floor has crumbled.
The Tiger Moth made it.
Auntie and the others are probably okay.
Sheeta... over there!
Everyone was caught!
They've tied them up.
Can't we rescue them?
Let's go!
We've opened a way into the city.
Look at this...
there's a mountain of treasure inside!
Wow.
Do you like this? Want it?
You'll all get enough... rope that is!
Did you notify our country of
the discovery of Laputa?
I'll do it now.
Try to set up a difficult code.
HEY, NO STEALING!
Those fools are just blind enough.
Amazing, these roots...
Sheeta, you can climb trees, right?
Let's go.
What they're doing is terrible...
If they go to the upper gardens...
Sheeta, we've got to get the Levistone back.
Only that will protect this
place from those thieves.
Why have the clouds cleared?
If it hadn't been like this,
they wouldn't have been able to land.
The effect of my spell...
This must be what Muska meant about
"the seal being broken."
This castle is awakened,
because the holder of the Levistone
approached, riding on the storm.
If we don't act, Muska will become king...
and, after the plunder,
terrible things will start to happen.
But how can I get the Levistone back?
Those words...
Those words?
Impossible... but...
We'll go around from below.
I'll jump first.
It's around here.
Dear God...
This is it!
It's that brat!
Damn!
Don't shoot. I'll catch her!
Well, well... a queen.
Captain, what's going on?
The rest of the pirates.
One of them is hiding at your feet.
Yes sir! Find him!
Hold it!
Get me a hand grenade!
It's Pazu.
What?
It's not what you think!
Guards, fall in! Hurry!
Auntie!
They have Sheeta. I'm going to rescue her.
After I cut the ropes, get out of here.
Get far away!
Hey, wait!
Take these.
Thanks.
That boy will go far.
What?! Muska broke all the radios?
Yes, sir. We caught his men hiding
inside the ship.
Many of the bridge crew are seriously wounded.
The Captain is inside the lower hemisphere.
Some of the men saw him go in.
Traitor! He's finally showing his true colors.
Gather the troops. This is a spy hunt!
Gather all squads! Hurry up, squad 3.
Muska and his men are to be shot on sight.
Find the entrance!
Captain, what in the world is this place?
The nerve center of Laputa.
The castle and treasure
above are just rubbish.
The science of Laputa is completely
stored in here.
You will wait here.
Captain!
Beyond here, none but the royal
family may enter. It's a sanctuary.
What's this?
Tree roots, this deep?
One phrase,
and it will all be reduced to ashes.
Come on... this way.
Here it is!
Here, too?
Found it!
Look at this huge Levistone!
This is the source of Laputa's power.
Excellent. For 700 years it has been
waiting for the return of the king.
700 years?
Your clan forgot, didn't it?
It's the black stone! Just like in the legend!
I can read it! I can read it!
Who in the world are you?
I also have an old, secret name, Lucita.
My name is Romuska Palo Ul Laputa.
Your clan and mine were
originally one royal family.
But when we returned to the earth,
it divided into two.
Not a crack.
It's not ordinary stone.
Use all the bombs we've got!
Your Excellency, you cannot get in like that.
Muska, where are you?
Well... what are you waiting for?
Do come inside, your Excellency.
Yes. Follow me!
Follow His Excellency!
Wh... what is this place? Muska... come out!
Be silent.
What kind of trick is this?
Be quiet. You are before the King of Laputa.
Are you mad?
Today, we celebrate the rebirth of a monarchy.
The rebirth of a global empire under one king.
Let me show you gentlemen the power of Laputa.
It is the heavenly fire that destroyed
Sodom and Gomorrah in the Old Testament,
and the arrows of heaven which took Ramayana,
Indora, and Atlantis.
The whole world will bow to Laputa again!
Excellent, Muska... you're a hero.
Now here is your reward.
The look on your face!
Run, everybody!
Die!
Those fools!
It's full of them...
Everybody... RUN!
Check the flapters!
Mama, let's fly!
Hurry, let's get away!
Be quiet. Don't raise your voices.
Why are those two waiting behind?
They'll end up falling.
I hope you don't anger me again...
... because it looks like we'll be
spending some time together.
I do hope they're not trying to get away.
They really intend to fight me.
Robots.
Excellent! Don't you think that
this is a great show?
Look! The people - they look like garbage.
What are you doing?
Give it back. Be a good girl. Come on.
Please... open up!
Where do you think you're going?
Open up!
Sheeta! I'm coming through!
Get down!
Hurry, take this! Muska's here!
Throw it in the ocean.
That stone you have is important.
I'll trade the girl's life for it.
Get up! The game is over.
The old throne room isn't very splendid,
is it? Come here!
You say this is the throne room?
This is our grave.
Our country was destroyed,
and a king like you survived. How tragic!
I won't give you the stone.
You can't leave here without killing me.
Why was Laputa destroyed?
I know perfectly well.
There's a song in the valley of Gondoa.
I Let our souls fall to the earth;
Live as one with the winds.
I Pass the winter along with the seeds,
and sing together with birds for spring.
No matter how many weapons you have,
or how many poor robots you use,
you cannot live, parted from the earth.
Laputa will not be destroyed.
However many times, it will be reborn.
The power of Laputa is the dream
of the human race.
Your ears will be next.
On your knees! Beg for your life!
Get the stone back from the brat!
Wait!
I hid the stone. If you shoot her,
I won't return it.
Pazu... stay away; it's no use.
He's going to kill us, no matter what.
Brat... the girl's life for the stone.
Tell me where it is.
Or, are you just going to scare
me with that cannon?
I want to talk with Sheeta - alone.
It's no use... throw the stone away and run!
I'll give you three minutes.
Sheeta... calm down. Listen closely.
Tell me those words. I'll say them, too.
The stone is in my left hand.
I've freed Auntie and the others.
Time's up! Let's hear your answer.
I Ba lusu!
My eyes... my eyes!
My eyes!
Mama, it's collapsing!
It can't be helped... launch!
Hurry!
Mama, look! The bottom is falling off!
Sheeta was a good girl.
She used the words of destruction...
Those children protected Laputa
from those idiots.
The collapse has stopped!
It's the Levistone! What luck!
It's going up.
The tree! It may have them! Follow it!
The tree roots saved us.
We'll break the wire.
Let's go.
What are you doing?
We're supposed to be going up!
We can't like this!
It's Sheeta!
They're alive.
It's the apprentice.
Auntie!
Safe and alive, aren't you?
Everyone's okay!
Everyone's okay except for my poor,
tattered ship.
Don't be so sentimental.
You can build another ship.
Poor thing...
what a cruel way to get a haircut...
Auntie... ouch!
Oh, sorry.
Isn't it terrible? Worrying so,
while full of these!
At any rate, we worried in our spare time...
The reason the horizon shines
ano chiheisen kagayaku no wa
is that somewhere it's hiding you.
dokoka ni kimi o kakushite iru kara
The reason I long for the many lights
takusan no hi ga natsukashii no wa
is that you are there in one of them.
ano doreka hitotsu ni kimi ga iru kara
So, I set out, with a slice of bread,
saa dekake you hitokire no PAN
a knife, a lamp, stuffed in a bag.
NAIFU RAMPU kaban ni tsumekonde
Father left me his burning desire.
tou-san ga nokoshita atsui omoi
Mother gave me her eyes.
kaa-san ga kureta ano manazashi
The earth turns, hiding you.
chikyuu wa mawaru kimi o kakushite
Shining eyes, twinkling lights.
kagayaku hitomi kirameku tomoshibi
The earth turns, carrying you,
chikyuu wa mawaru kimi o nosete
carrying us both who'll surely meet.
itsuka kitto deau bokura o nosete
Father left me his burning desire.
tou-san ga nokoshita atsui omoi
Mother gave me her eyes.
kaa-san ga kureta ano manazashi
The earth turns, hiding you.
chikyuu wa mawaru kimi o kakushite
Shining eyes, twinkling lights.
kagayaku hitomi kirameku tomoshibi
carrying us both who'll surely meet.
itsuka kitto deau bokura o nosete
Ending theme Kimi o nosete (Carrying you)
Translation by Theresa Martin